# 101

This lab is about geeting a feeling what Spring Boot and Spring can do for you, what parts are easy, what is not so easy. It is not an instruction into Spring or Spring Boot as it covers only basics.

However, you will see how easy it is to create a new production-ready application and how to extend it.

Be aware, a good internet connection is required to download the dependencies, but not to run the application.

## Overview

+ ***v0.1.0-demo*** Simplest possible application, use to check that the prerequisites are fulfilled and to download most of the dependencies.
+ ***v0.2.0-lab***  Your lab session, you will code here.
+ ***v1.0.0-solution*** A complete version with all tasks done, available for your convenience. Only use as a reference or if you are stuck beyond belief.

You need to build v1.0.0 before you can import and run the lab or the solution.

### Prerequisites

You need at least a current maven 3.x, and a JDK 1.8 or up. Spring supports lower versions, but the sample code makes use of JDK 1.8. It is recommended to use an IDE of your choice that supports JDK 1.8 such as Eclipse Luna, Intellij IDE 14 or Netbeans 8 or up. Eclipse requires you that Eclipse itself is started with an JDK 1.8.

It is also recommended to install Git or a tool of your choice like TortoiseGit or SourceTree for Windows. IDE integrations would suffice, too.

### Preparation

Check out the code, build v0.1.0-demo and v1.0.0-commons on the command line, and import the projects into your IDE of choice. Don't use mvn eclipse:eclipse or any other IDE specific tasks, let your IDE do that job.

### Setup

We are talking about a music catalog. There are products and artists. Most of the backend code is already there. Currently we have a products service to be called via REST. There is also a helper class called `Catalog` that helps up to load a sample catalog.

## Lab

1. The main application is called `Application` and resides in the root package. Look it up. There is a sample REST service called `ProductsRestServive`. Try to find out how to access it.
2. Start the application. Spring Boot loads settings from a file called `application.properties`. The default port is 8080, but you can easily override it. How?
3. Access the product search using `curl`, `wget`, your browser or any tool you like.
4. Tell the REST service to use the existing ProductsService and test again.
5. Well, load some sample data at application start (-> `Application`) and search again.
6. We only want sample data to be loaded in a test system. Use `@Value` with the system property `bootcamp.sampling` to control whether sample data is loaded or not.
7. You can use the system property `spring.profiles.active=<profile>` to set the stage that will load for example `application-<profile>.properties` on top of the default set. Try it out!
8. Have a look at the repository used to load products from the database. Any idea how you would add a query that does what we want directly?



